## Project Overview

nxdomain is a project designed to simulate a DNS infrastructure, containing the following components:
- [recursor.py](recursor.py): A recursive resolver which queries servers to map a hostname to a port, which are cached for future lookups.
- [server.py](server.py): Accepts socket connections to process queries. Stores a list of DNS records mapping full or partial hostnames to ports.
- [launcher.py](launcher.py): Splits a master DNS record into sub-records used by root, TLD and authoritative DNS servers. Has the capacity to scale up root, TLD and authoritative [server.py](server.py) programs to fulfil DNS queries required by the master record.

This is intended to be a tool to investigate the functionality of DNS infrastructure, and therefore does not fully emulate what is used in a live environment. See [Limitations](#limitations) for more.

*Note: nxdomain is short for non-existent domain.*

## Recursive Resolver

The [recursor.py](recursor.py) program requires the port of the root DNS server and a timeout:

```
python3 recursor.py root_port timeout
```

Hostnames can be input into the CLI and will be resolved to a port as follows:
- A TCP socket connection is made to the root DNS server, and a query is sent to find the port of the TLD DNS server corresponding to the hostname.
- Once the port is recieved, a connection to the TLD DNS server is made, followed by a query for the port of the authoritative DNS server corresponding to the hostname.
- Again, the recursive resolver will connect to the authoritative DNS server and perform a final query to map the initial hostname to a port, which is printed to stdout.

If at any stage of the above process a port is unable to be resolved, the server will respond with `NXDOMAIN`, ending the lookup.

As many hostnames can be entered as required before exiting, which is done by entering `CTRL-C` or `CTRL-D`.

Once a hostname has been resolved, it is cached to improve future lookup speeds and reduce network traffic. Each hostname record comes with a time-to-live (TTL) to ensure that cached records are kept fresh. In this implementation, the caching expiry is maintained using multithreading.


## DNS server
The [server.py](server.py) program requires the location of a valid single record file:

```
python3 server.py single_file
```

Note that the single file does not *need* to be configured such that the server mimics a root, TLD or authoritative DNS server. If using single files generated by the [launcher](#dns-launcher) this will be the observed behaviour.

The server instance will, once validating the single record file, listen for connections on the port specified in the single record file. Requests recieved fall into two groups:
- full or partial hostnames which need to be resolved
- commands to edit the records stored within the server (see [commands](#commands))

These requests do not need to be sent from [recursor.py](recursor.py) programs. For example, using ncat:

```
echo "www.google.com" | nc localhost 1025
```

Any hostnames which are resolved, either to a port or to NXDOMAIN, will be logged to stdout.

### Commands

* `!ADD hostname port`: Adds a new record mapping a valid hostname to a valid port within the DNS server. Will override the port if hostname is already mapped. Ports must be unique.
* `!DEL hostname`: Removes the record for a valid hostname.
* `!EXIT`: Shutdown the server.

The removed or added records do not persist when restarting the server, but the changes are made to the servers runtime memory.

## DNS launcher

The [launcher.py](launcher.py) program requires a master record file and a directory to store the generated single record files:

```
python3 launcher.py master_file directory_of_single_files
```

The launcher program will then generate single record files (used to configure one DNS server). Single records may include both hostnames and partial-hostnames, and can be used to start up a collection of simplified DNS servers. For example, the DNS launcher will split an master record file
```
1024
www.google.com,8987
```

into the following single record files:

* root.conf 
```
1024
com,1512
```
* tld-com.conf
```
1512
google.com,7185
```
* auth-google.conf
```
7185
www.google.com,8987
```

Each of these files can the be fed into a single [server.py](server.py) instance, which will then act like either a root, TLD or authoritative DNS server. This is the default behaviour of the launcher, that is, to scale up a number of DNS servers to fulfil any queries required by the initial master record file.

To exit the launcher program, enter `CTRL-C` or `CTRL-D`. This will also scale down any server infrastructure currently being managed by the launcher.


## Valid inputs

Ports must be in the range [1024, 65535]

Hostnames must be written in the format C.B.A where:
- A,B,C are non-empty strings containing lowercase alphanumeric characters
- A,B,C are at most 63 characters
- A,B,C cannot start or end with a hyphon, but can contain hyphons
- C may contain mutliple periods (e.g. www.help.me.google.com is valid)

The regex for a valid hostname is `"(?:[a-z0-9](?:[a-z0-9-]{0,61}[a-z0-9])?\.){2,}[a-z0-9][a-z0-9-]{0,61}[a-z0-9]"`.

Master record files must be in the format:
```
root_port
hostname,port
hostname,port
...
```
where hostnames and ports must follow the rules above. Additionally, hostnames and ports must be uniquely paired (same hostname, same port).

Single record files must be in the format:
```
port
partial-hostname,port
partial-hostname,port
...
```
where partial-hostname is a subset of a valid hostname (i.e in format A, B.A, C.B.A).


## Limitations

The following is a list of simplifications made compared to real-world DNS systems. A number of these concepts could be implemented to extend this tools functionality.

* The changes made to server records during runtime are not persisted.
* Only one type of DNS record is allowed (equivalent of IPv4 records). CNAME for aliases MX for emails and AAAA for IPv6 are some common ones which could be included.
* ~~Caching of DNS resolutions is not utilized to improve lookup speeds. If implemented, it must include a time-to-live to ensure all cached records are kept fresh.~~
* Once a lookup has failed (NXDOMAIN recieved), the resolver does not attempt to find other servers which may have the necessary records.
* Servers are single-threaded, meaning that only one connection can be held, reducing the efficiency of lookups.
* No server redundancy is present. If one server fails some or all lookups will not be able to be resolved.
* The request and responses are sent via plaintext over the socket connections, and no extra security measures are in place to prevent spoofing, poisoning.
* Ports are used instead of IP addresses to remove the need for multiple physical machines, extra networking overhead or cloud infrastructure.
